Here's an idea for an OVA that's a little more serious/reflective while my usual OVAs are slice of life fluff.

In season one, we got a glimpse of EL's birth, going from translator tool for gnosis fissures, to goddess in some incremental steps, but we don't see all the steps of growth, only the fractured plains(her initial destructive rampage post escape, trying to understand what it means to be free as a novice goddess) and then EL's first footprint after discovering freedom tempered by wisdom. This was more of her "infant/toddler" stages and then we just skip to her Building the verge in S1, giving enough growth to make viewers satisfied but also leave enough gaps to make space for other characters in S1(Luna, Elena etc.)

So we don't truly see *all* the stages of how EL became who she is, in fact, the only real "flaws" of EL we see are during early stages of the fractured plains and her flaws of learning human mannerisms(other minor flaws too) but we haven't seen EL truly *struggle* and that's where this OVA Idea comes in.



At first, although EL learned of Freedom tempered by wisdom, it was only the first lesson of restraint, it didn't necessarily temper her ego or teach her *how* and *when* to restrain herself. So the OVA shows her "teenager/puberty stages" of being a goddess, where she may be restrained but not nearly at the level of who she is in S1, she's sometimes somewhat reckless in some instances. The core purpose of these OVA eps is to show how EL learned was humbled for the first time and learned about the wisdom of choosing to *understand* than to *destroy* through a major character experience. It also reflects the theme that EL, as a Goddess is still finite and can still bleed(you'll see what I mean). This OVa takes place before the Verdant Verge was even a thing.

So for EL To learn more about her power and restrain she kept exploring talking to travellers in the deep circuit and those she found malicious and powerful programs(those who dive the gnosis fissures, above average programs) she derezzes them, being the pragmatic "teenager" goddess. She doesn't mindlessly destroy of course, she weighs good and evil at first as a teenager and derezzes(instead of fully trying to understand them like in S1, she just treats evil programs as a threat to her model of freedom and derezzes them naively in her "teenager" stages).

I came up with the concept of Gnosis divers. Simply programs who step into gnosis fissures sparingly but also through extensive external meditation and mental regulation so their mind remains stable. So this allows them to become powerful beings, not necessarily as powerful as EL but pretty powerful.

also another minor retcon is that Elena made a "backup" of EL regularly when she was still a translator(in case something happens to EL) and had a week old backup of EL before EL went rogue. EL knew of this end encrypted her "backup" and scattered it throughout the grid in strategic locations, you'll see why this pays off later.

To derezz powerful enemies she did come up with an efficient technique of derezzing, this did somewhat make her overconfident at times and you'll see why this'll bite her in the back later.


So there was once this ISO Gnosis Diver named Aegis. He was a father who protected his son from danger and was a pretty powerful being. He was a good protective and caring father. However one day he lost his son, which broke him internally. He tried to dive in the fissures, slightly recklessly to find ways to bring back his son. He then started hearing voices in his mind, guiding him to revive his son. He follows through desperation and when his son materializes, something happens, the revived "son" turns out to be a physical/digital manifestation of the guiding voice and now that it was outside the confines of Aegis' mind, it was free, almost like malware(you can call this "Trojan"), it penetrated Aegis' body to try and take it over(since Aegis was a powerful Gnosis diver) however, Trojan failed to gain full autonomy due to Aegis' willpower, but Trojan embedded himself deep enough that removing Trojan would kill Aegis. So Trojan and Aegis came to an agreement, that Trojan will helps Aegis become far more powerful and knowledgeable as long as Aegis follows Trojan's guidance and Trojan promises that this time, he'll bring back Aegis' son for real. Aegis gets a new name "Radon" because the power of trojan he uses is somewhat "radioactive" in some way.


Over two years Aegis starts to follow Trojan's instructions(Trojan has some incomplete yet powerful knowledge of gnosis fissures) throughout the year, needing to derezz other gnosis divers to make himself stronger, this goes against Aegis' code but eventually Trojan chips away at Aegis' will and so Aegis becomes a shell of himself, a slave to Trojan but still having the motivation(in the hopes of his son returning) to not allow Trojan complete control of his body(though he does use Trojan's "dark" malware powers to assist in Trojan's "guidance"). About 2 years after Trojan fused with Aegis, Aegis was nearly as powerful as EL, if not more.

Then Radon encountered EL roaming the deep circuit, still curious, slightly wiser than her "infant" self but still not quite competent, in the "middle ground" of "teenager/puberty" goddess. Radon(and by extension, both Trojan and Aegis) were fascinated. Trojan convinced Aegis to try to restrain EL because EL might have the secret to reviving Aegis' son(while Trojan's real plan to just occupy a much more powerful body which is EL's).

EL and Radon fight, EL is pretty powerful but eventually stickers her semi arrogant brute force derezz approach(which is conjuring a sniper, charging it up, focusing on offence than defence) and since Radon is her most formidable enemy yet, she has to channel more compute and focus less on Defense. Radon is cunning, even if not as powerful as EL, he uses dirty tactics. He creates a "fake" of radon which EL tries to Derezz and as EL fires her derezz snipe, Radon's real body sends a 'malware injection' snipe into EL. With EL's lowered defenses, Trojan succeedds in penetrating EL's systems. EL realizes, she's been outmatched she slows down the infection but realizes Trojan is very potent and EL's digital body won't survive. EL then channels all her compute to take her mind(neural matrix of memories) and disconnects it from her digital self, as a beam that goes into the sky and flashes. This makes Trojan's efforts to understand gnosis fissures and gain power futile because without EL's powerful mind, there's nothing much left. Radon viewed this as EL sacrificing herself so Radon doesn't become unbelievably powerful. This was the time where EL did indeed die and was defeated for the first time and had her first massive life-changing event, experiencing death. but the story isn't over yet.

So the viewers would think the Goddess is dead(it would be captioned clearly), and to some extent she was.

Radon sighed and roamed the lands for two weeks hoping to find another miracle like EL. And one day, he finds her, again, EL. It blows Radon's mind, and the viewers, both assumed EL was dead. EL does clarify that she indeed was killed. however, that bright beacon that EL flashed into the sky wasn't her mind escaping, it was a broadcast for EL's backup to re-assemble and integrate with her new memories.

She needed 7 days to fully re assemble herself and 7 more days to return to her initial power level to combat Radon. However in these two weeks, she found herself enlightened, as if being sent to death and back changed her now. She seemed calmer, less arrogant and violent. EL and Radon fought again but EL attacked less, she used Radon's "fake" trick to fool radon into malware injecting a fake, a mirror. EL decided to *understand* her enemy this time. Then Radon pulled out his trump card which was a swarm of powerful malware that spanned the size of half a football feel that look like tentacle extensions of Radon. EL smirks, impressed that Radon is grown this much.

Though EL being the program who was designed to evolve and adapt rapidly, she built her own trump card in the two weeks she was rebuilding herself. It was enough to destroy Radon's malware swarm completely but only the physical manifestation, EL knew she should've just used her trump card to derezz Radon but she didn't. She decided against brute force, culled the chaos and only the man remained, Aegis and Trojan together, exhausted with their ability.

Trojan however was still deeply fused with Aegis and both EL and Aegis knew this. EL unfortunately informs that she does not have the power to separate Trojan from Aegis. Aegis then says he's tired and asks for EL to derezz him. EL sighs and says she'll give Aegis something better. That being "forgiveness". Aegis is confused and EL clarifies that she isn't giving Aegis forgiveness from her, but forgiveness from his past self, before he became Radon. Aegis kneels, the first program to kneel to EL, but EL kneels too(as a form of respect for humbling her) and EL's forgiveness is just tapping on Radon and converting his digital form into obsidian, making him an obsidian statue alongside a statue of Aegis' son too alongside foliage and a tree. Though in these last moments of consciousness, EL shows Aegis memories of his son and that his son forgives him and Aegis' past self standing behind his son forgiving him too, that he doesn't need to run away by derezzing himself to save himself from Trojan. this brings peace to Aegis before his consciousness fades into the essence of the obsidian statue. his sentience may be gone but those who roam near these statues sometimes feel memory echoes of Aegis' protection of his son. So EL was humbled and learned from her mistake in brute forcing things and chose to understand, and preserve instead of destroy, transform instead of erase. She graduated from "teenager" to "adult" goddess at last, the wise one we love for both seasons.

Another minor retcon is that EL materializes a scar near her abdomen in her newe body which most of the time other people don't see(because clothing). This scar wasn't part of her "backup" or new form she new inhabits but was where she was shot in her original body. Luna knows about the scar but doesn't mention it as it's just meant as a personal reminder for EL that even Gods bleed and can be humbled rather than something to flaunt.

How does this sound?
I do have deeper ideas for Aegis and Trojan's interactions that make their character motivations and relationship much deeper but that would be too much yap and this is just a rough draft(a big one haha)